I know okay backseat haircutting
questions time alright dr. kay how do we
decompress after a heavy work day after
talking to main depressed people in a
row yeah that's a question like how do
you decompress after a heavy work day um
that's a good question so you know I do
a couple of standard things so I try to
like stay fed throughout the day which
is actually really really important so
my wife does a good job
booty does an awesome job like so she
gave me a smoothie this morning I will
oftentimes wine per smoothie
soon after I wake up until I get one so
I think that you know decompressing
after a long day is just as much about
managing yourself throughout the day is
it is about like fixing things afterward
so I think like eating at regular
intervals and like not being super
hungry because if you're not like if
you're super hungry at the end of the
day and you eat a lot then you're gonna
like get into a food coma so I try to
spend some time with my kids usually
after I'm done working we've tried to
spend like an hour - together as a
family everyday which is like pretty
important I spent some time outdoors
that's huge so thankfully now I'm in
Texas and it's like kind of it's
generally speaking hot in Texas but it's
been nice this year actually so I'll
spend some time outdoors literally
yesterday I just laid down in the grass
so like because you're my birth dates
are 15 minutes and just looked at the
sky like that's good stuff and then I
also do play games so like after a long
day if I can't like play games to watch
a little bit of TV you know I think a
lot of people think that you should do
like self care like after a long day
like I should do yoga or meditate but I
actually find like I think self-care
requires mana right like it's it's
effortful to meditate exercise or do
yoga and so I don't I try to make that
part of my workday kind of basically
like treat it like a dog
yeah and sometimes I'll just be like
silent by myself so after streams
usually I go from like like a short
drive somewhere for no particular cue if
I have an errand to run or something
like that but I think it's important to
let your mind just decompress and
process one of the biggest problems I
think we run into is that we move from
distraction - distraction in the mind so
like it's always like TV or gaming or
audio book or podcast or music or like
and we're never just sitting with
ourselves like it's like browsing things
reading things listening to things our
mind is always occupied and I think one
of the best things that you can do is
actually just give your mind some time
to just process which peels boring at
first like you think you're gonna be
bored but you'd be amazed like how good
it can be yeah when you're talking about
like stuff to decompress was that stuff
you figure out on your own just through
experimentation or how did that like
come about yeah so I think basically
through experimentation so like the
thing is you have to understand how you
work and no one's gonna be able to tell
you how you work as a person so what you
want to do is like spend some time
paying attention to yourself
spend some time like kind of being with
yourself so one of our our coaching
clients came up with an awesome exercise
which was like halfway through his his
coaching run he decided to spend an hour
sitting on a honest like a couch or
something like staring at fall and he
was like I just wanted to see what would
happen if I just like don't have any
distractions and just see what would
happen to my mind and I think that was
like that's a brilliant exercise it's
really hard to do but a lot of stuff can
come up and so you know I think a lot of
it is through like reflection and like
observing yourself so what works for you
and what doesn't work for you
and I found that like basically I'm kind
of an introvert so when I need to
recharge I try to do things by myself
is there any like advice you give to
someone who's trying to figure out like
or understand themselves
yeah so I think kind of what I said is
like first start by being with yourself
so we spend so much of our time with
other things in people right so like
Reddit twitch gaming books music like
there's a reason why shower thoughts are
so profound and so wonderful it's
because like when you're in the shower
like you don't you're with yourself and
that can actually be pretty cool so just
I would say go on walks be in nature on
your own that's a really good way to get
to know yourself sorry
so was I like high neuroticism I
conscientiousness and if so if not how
was I not like that is basically what
I'm hearing yeah yeah so many of my
colleagues so what high neuroticism and
I conscientious means is that there's a
system of personality analysis which is
like scientifically like pretty
validated which is called the big five
or the five factor model and it
basically divides personality into five
dimensions and different people sort of
are on like different levels on each
dimension and two of the levels or
neuroticism so neuroticism is like the
tendency to worry on the inside so just
how like concern you get about stuff and
high conscientiousness which is the
ability to kind of focus on a task over
time and medical students tend to be
high in neuroticism and high in
conscientiousness so they can sit down
and like focus hard for four years in
order to get into medical school and
furthermore since they like or anxious
about how well they do on tests they're
worried and their anxiety actually
propels them to study more which makes
it adaptive in terms of like gives them
an advantage so most medical students
are highly conscientious and very
neurotic or anxious so I wasn't like
that
really at all
I think the reason is because I failed
so miserably four years before I got
into medical school so like I was a very
different person from many of my
colleagues so the first thing is I was
like years I was like 4 to 5 years older
than most of the class because it took
me that long to get into med school
that's number one but I think during
those years like the big difference was
that like these are you know I think
about him as kids but you know these are
people or kids that like basically
always did well in life so they're like
you know they like had you know they
were in top ten in their high school
class like had three point eight plus
GPAs in college and so they've always
like done really well so they don't
really like for them like a failure is
like a B or C and it's like they didn't
really understand like what real failure
is whereas I had understood what real
fear is it's like being 25 unemployed
you know being rejected from 80 medical
schools with really no hope of getting
in anywhere really not having any money
not having any much of anything at all
and so the things that would terrify
them or freak them out would like not
feel like much to me so a good example
is you know you get yelled at when
you're in the operating room by like
surgeons like that just think it's like
because surgeons sometimes aren't the
nicest people it's like a little bit of
a toxic culture in general and it's also
sort of a high-stakes thing so sometimes
medical students will you know they'll
get yelled at by a surgeon in the
operating room and so when they get yell
that's like that's not something that
has happened to them before right
because these are the kids that have
gotten over words and and done well and
gotten A's like they don't get yelled at
for being the stupidest person in the
room which isn't really fair because
that's you know they're the least
knowledgeable but that's what happens
and so then like they they've run out of
the operating room tears and all this
kind of stuff the
they're more terrifying thing for
medical students as they ask people like
hey how am i doing and they say like
yeah you're doing a great job you're
doing a great job you're doing a great
job and then they get like an average
grade they don't get like the best grade
and then they're devastated because at
that point bridge is a great job um so
you know I think that for me like the
reason that med school was actually kind
of like chill and easy was because I had
really failed and so I understood like
you know getting yelled at by a surgeon
like that's because he's an [ __ ] it
has nothing to do with me it's like the
dude is having a bad day like what do
you expect from me I'm a third-year
medical student who's been in the
operating room for two weeks so like
what can they reasonably expect and so I
studied and I recognized that I could
like learn as much as I could but I'm
not gonna know everything yet like
that's why I'm in med school whereas not
knowing everything felt very very
devastating to many of my colleagues and
so it's like okay I mean you can yell at
me for not knowing things but that has
nothing to do with me bro it's like I've
been doing this for two weeks like so I
think really understanding failure and
having failed is like one of the biggest
sources of my strength and like what
makes life like sort of easy to manage
right because it gives you perspective
yeah so I think I gained confidence and
when I think about confidence what I
mean is I had a sense of my internal
value and Worth and a lot of times
medical students will or they're just
people in general will have a sense of
value that's based on like external
things so like how good I am if I'm if I
get good grades then I'm a good person
if I graduate from college then I'm a
good person
the converse is also true that a lot of
our community will judge themselves
based on based on their lack of a
competence so their value as a human
being is determined by how much money
they make or whether they have jobs or
whether
they have you know romantic partners or
whatever whereas like when you really
fail you begin to realize like that's
not where value comes from it's just
value comes from like within and so I
think that was really different from me
and my colleagues so I you're right
Zack I'd I don't have much I mean I'm
not very neurotic gotcha okay and that
makes sense like someone was asking how
do you find that enter a person yeah you
spend time with yourself this is gonna
be a theme for today right so like I
spent time like when you're like when
you fail you miss it so you know we
don't sew like this this is getting like
so I think this is one of the reasons
why like mental health is getting worse
is because we spend more and more time
with our mind focus on external things
because there's way better external
stuff to focus on now
like you don't have to be with yourself
at all during the day like I have a
portable bluetooth speaker that'll
sometimes take like carry into the
bathroom when I take a shower so that I
can like listen to an audio book even
when I'm in the shower
you know you can have headphones
portable speakers you have a phone that
goes with you wherever you go that you
can like browse on like there's screens
and podcasts around you 24/7 if you want
so it's becoming like easier and easier
to not spend time with yourself and it's
becoming more entertaining to like not
be bored by yourself and that's what we
call bored right like we call bored like
a mind that is unoccupied
that's what boredom is but I think that
as we've become less and less bored it's
actually hurting us because we don't get
to know who we are because you're
spending your time with like things out
besides yourself so practically how do
you do that I think sitting and staring
at a wall is a good place to start you
know I think it's nice to like so I you
know I like tea
like I think it's nice to sit outdoors
if you can and and like you know grab a
cup of tea or even like a glass of like
water with lemon and then just chill out
there for like fifteen and thirty
minutes like don't take your phone take
like a piece of paper and like something
to write with and if you feel like
jotting things down jot things down
I think hikes are fantastic or like
going for a walk is fantastic because
it's like hard to get distracted when
you're hiking and you just kind of get
to spend time with yourself and sort of
exist with yourself and then you'll get
to know who you are and like the more
you get to know that person the more
you'll realize that like you know
whether you're a medical student failing
to get into medical school a doctor or
faculty at Harvard Medical School it's
like the same person who takes a hike
like I'm still the same dude like
nothing has changed like those are all
external trappings but like the person
on the inside is the same and so then
once you realize that there's a constant
within you that is irrespective of what
your bank account says then you begin to
realize that like no one can take that
away from you and like then it's kind of
cool because then you kind of know who
you are then it's like cool yeah so
Dominican love on Twitter ass
at some point in the future I guess like
now can you talk about self-love self
luck yeah I I don't is that something
that you learned because I don't
actually know what he means here a
little bit more I noticed a lot of
people reclaiming recoiling from
compliments and cop constantly putting
themselves down in an ultra negative way
and it would be cool to get some helpful
perspective to pass on to them
so I guess like his yeah so this is this
is something actually we talk about with
our coaches it's they're kind of two
perspectives and I I think like the
common element is why what makes it ours
like when you when someone complements
you like the first thing to do is notice
yourself so like when someone
complements you like it's almost almost
like this serpent on coils in your mind
and like swats away the compliment like
you feel deeply uncomfortable for like a
fraction of a second and then you want
to knock it away because something about
that like makes you feel something I the
first thing you've got to do is like
understand like why are you responding
like that like look at that and and see
that when someone is trying to express
appreciation something exists in you
that doesn't can't sit with that so
that's the first thing you've got to
figure out is like see that thing
because it's like it's like a reflex
like you're like no I can't I can't have
people saying that and so we ask our
coaches is then the question becomes
where where was that thing born right so
where does that come from why is it hard
for you to accept compliments and it may
not be any compliment for a lot of
people it's like particular things so if
you tell someone like on twitch that
they're a good-looking person they're
more likely to recoil than they are if
you tell them that you think they're
smart all right so there's some aspects
of your personality that you're okay
with being like Obama average and there
are other aspects that might deeply run
against your perception of self then
what we kind of ask our coaches is like
like once again like where does that
come from so you know when did they
start to feel like they're unattractive
and that you kind of go back to like the
origin of that feeling and then kind of
work through it for people I think the
other thing is is that
so like I think what you should try to
do is like acknowledge for a moment that
these people are seeing something within
you all right so even if you may
disagree or they don't fully understand
or maybe they're trying to be nice you
know they're basing it on something and
so as best as you can try to see like
what is this person able to see that I'm
not able to see and acknowledge for a
second that like other people may know
things about you that you don't know
about yourself and so it's not like you
know everything right which is the
earlier discussion about the scissors
like I know my hair but maybe she knows
my hair but she but you don't know about
cutting and I'm telling you what people
have used those scissors
how many haircuts have you given none to
dogs or people things that have hair
similar to yours the answer neither case
is zero actually so there's someone else
on Twitter I forgot to write their user
name said it feels like a lot of
people's phones come from not being able
to connect with others how can I
practice being less socially awkward how
can you get less socially awkward yeah
how how can I practice being less
socially awkward
it's a great question so there's a
subtle there's a subtlety in the
question how can I practice being less
socially awkward you can't practice
being a socially awkward all you can
practice is being socially awkward and
if you practice being socially awkward
for long enough over time you will
become less real right does that make
sense like you can't get past the fact
in the socially awkward phase it's like
it's just a it's a part it's a part of
the process right so you're gonna be
socially awkward or you're gonna it that
that too but you may not be socially
awkward you may just feel socially
awkward so like you know if you talk to
people who have social anxiety their
perception of how they're doing socially
is far worse than like how other people
think they're doing so you can't
practice being socially awkward what
unity just practices being social and
over time the awkwardness will decrease
now I'm not saying stop feeling awkward
I'm saying you're gonna continue to feel
awkward
until you practice being subtle and then
the feelings of awkwardness will fade
away I feel like one thing that's
helpful is like learning how to smooth
over socially awkward moments so like
knowing that it's not like the end of
the conversation like not freezing here
right here I could clean that up clean
it up for weeks that's why we're here
that's why we're doing this
you
my chops seriously wrecked okay I don't
know what to do with these if you won't
let me use clippers yeah yeah don't just
wait why he's cut huh why can't she just
cut the sideburns oh okay I'll use my
razor fiery okay okay okay it's actually
pretty good
what do you think yeah right it's kind
of like the picture right
okay seven I'll take a seven tonight
yeah you can bust out of your station do
you want a fresh shirt yeah why don't
you do a bus stop or do I take it off
over my head I think I could tear
it does it does kind of feel like I was
being born does this movie that I don't
know if you guys are familiar with
called Ace Ventura pet detective
no I'm not doing put a camera I don't
want to move well I'm here on me cuz
it'll get here everywhere whoa what is
it a lot man what what you just did what
do you mean what I just did nevermind -
hat - hat all right I took off a hairy
shirt mm-hmm can you just hand me that
step okay thank you
you're very woman it's a is a good read
yelp review really important to you
hustle yes pretty wet pretty wet pretty
wet it looks pretty good yeah see now
they want more more what shirt now she
got off all over here that she's allowed
to cut off my sideburns yeah you really
need to fix those
[Laughter]
do it murder oh okay I need a mirror do
you want him to change shirts again zag
no no we're not changing can we just
finish questions - it's too much
oh if we want to move on from like kind
of soft fair because I stuff about
therapy meditation so okay wait which
topics if you want change shirts it's
like I just changed shirts wait then
crease a change again or no no we're not
gonna change again let me change
you